welcome everyone to this week's IPL d
weekly meeting is 10th of February 2020
as every week we go over the stuff that
we've done last weekend planned to do
next week and then discuss any open
items we might have or also introduce
everyone who's new to the column wants
to introduce myself
yeah so yeah that's perhaps start with
this so I see a new face
well do you want to quickly introduce
yourself if you don't that's also fine
so just to see what what's going on in
IPL D world all right cool on my list I
start with myself and I certainly
haven't done that much actually related
work last week but this week I
definitely will have time to work again
on the rough side of things and mostly I
concentrate on the multi-format stuff
because yes several Chris open in Forks
and again getting them together and
having a solid base for facing high
quality on um yeah that's all I have
next one on my list is Michael sorry
Nina so yeah so basically last week I
got to the compy generation side of this
big data set project and so it
immediately just crashed lambda we
investigated it was using a lot of
scratch disk space and a lot of memory
so hitting it up abroad around figuring
out the first broad wrapped into rust
and that got rid of some of the memory
usage I think but still using a lot of
scratch disk and memory and then fulcrum
at it and from there and I think around
us got together to farther so now I
think we're finally like near the point
where it'll run in lambda on rust the
sports version without crashing
hopefully um but that's this also it's
both a problem whether we've been
generating par file
that are just a little bit over again
because we thought that the wind at
Falcon sector padding worked was that
you assembled all the pieces into a
sector and then you did the padding but
the padding actually happens at each
piece so each piece has to be a size
that's a factor of two or the sector and
so that meant that a file suddenly over
one gig would pad to two gigs which is
like all of the data almost that we've
been producing for this so I have to go
back and rewrite the slicer and the
allocator earth and then regenerate a
small data set make sure that it all
works maybe run it through compy if
that's working by then and then also
write a very large running migration
script to move all the old data to new
data that will slice and allocate into
par files that are less than the one
good so that's my last weekend this week
also finished up reviews last week so
I'll be that have reviewed about 101 to
it today to go over them it was next
next is Tim all right so last week was
productive I went through all the
constraints I was given for selector
syntax and came up with this very
esoteric syntax that may work I don't
know I mean if it's the constraints so I
wrote up a PR describing it and and I'm
willing right now running a parser for
it to verify it's not horribly ambiguous
the biggest issue I see is we may have
problems in the future with like old
versions of the syntax and new versions
of the parser and vice versa it's not a
fully self documenting syntax it needs
some context so off to decide if that's
a good idea or not but yeah just this
week I'm looking forward to the feedback
on that and iterating and that's pretty
much in the context piece of that does
that apply to be fully parsed form as
well we're just the attacks like in a
structured data format like JSON you got
quotes you gave arbitrary key
whereas with this with the keywords you
only know where the keywords start and
stop because you have a fixed dictionary
of keywords that are allowed there's no
spaces to differentiate well so
technically it's a very compact encoding
but I'm not sure it's flexible enough
for migrations I'll have to say about
that
I mean I'm I mean maybe Eric can click
in my case then I can't but like in all
the cases that are in my head I would
not be worried about having to have a
version specific syntax parser as long
as the parsed form is fine and doesn't
require that context then we can always
have the parsed form and know exactly
which I mean I made me the same I hadn't
thought of it right I mean yeah the the
ILD data structure is the source of
truth is just if I what I'm most
concerned about is if I have a new
version of the syntax and I'm using an
old version of the parser it probably
won't know to do with it but if we don't
care about supporting that we're fine
yeah I think we're okay at least for a
while we find a case where that's not
that's not true them and we'll worry
about that when it comes
Poole mixed what is Eric for export I'm
gonna select your DSL stuff I think as
long as you don't go too crazy let's at
bare words I'm not super worried about
the migration either you're the last
couple of comments about that I saw
chronologically an email or white space
has some semantics and I think that's
fine as long as you define it as a white
space to open collapses arbitrary
amounts of white space like that's a
pretty common thing anyway to sense so I
just sat down and did lots of code this
week which was nice
I'm about on par with where I hoped to
be from last week which is I'm
reimplemented the whole basic IPL denote
packages for untyped stuff to conform to
new interfaces for performance purposes
and pretty much finished that up and
there's a new implementation of lists
and new implementations of all the other
scalars all 15 new interfaces I'll have
a bunch of new tests and so next week
it's just carry that stuff into the core
and that's going to be fun so right now
all this stuff has written in branch
called research and it is in some other
package separate from the main ones in
order to control the scope explosion
while I work on it and the next thing up
is to merge it into the main folder on
the master branch and deal with the
explosion of everyday mess so I'm gonna
hope that I can port all of the codecs
all of the traversal logic and all of
the selectors to the new interfaces and
I'm gonna claim that I can do that in a
week we'll see it's a little bit of an
aggressive bit but like maybe these
interface changes will also probably
generate some work for anything
downstream that's using it and I'm
mostly thinking of I think like there's
a deck protobuf in-your-face repo out
there that I think Hannah is the primary
author and that's gonna need some
updates but hopefully pretty easy ones
and anything like this should have
versions pinned by hash so it's not
going to like completely break down the
doors
should be able to absorb at leisure as I
carry all of these updates through for
the Codex and reversals and selectors
and there's course stuff I'm actually
going to take the current cogent
packages in the repo and temporarily
abandon them because I don't think the
utility of keeping the migrated lives is
going to be worth anything I'm just
gonna like write a bunch of those as
lessons learned and do a reboot after
the interface changes lens I think
that's just gonna be easier and there
are some lessons learned so it's like
purifying Passover as well and I'm
having a lot of fun doing test purposes
now so something that I've learned from
the last time I try to get serialization
laberd's is the matrix between probing
every edge case and serialization and
all these recursive structure assemblies
and also dealing with what may be typed
or untyped flexible data at the same
time the number of cases that you have
to test for is just really enormous so
I'm starting to put some extra effort
into making sure all the test specs
shape up nicely this time in part that's
just naming them unfortunately like
making sure I know which things I have
cases covering so if this goes ideally I
want to have one set of programmatic
test specs that say like this behavior
should confirm correct operation of a
Mac so long as that definition of the
map has string keys and integer values
and these particular keys which is funny
because if you have an untyped map
that's a bunch of constraints don't but
if you're using this on a piece of typed
information that is a strong if that
happens to act like a map then suddenly
all that extra entry food matters so I'm
starting to write test specs with that
in mind it's fun that's about it it's my
week thank you next on my list is rod
okay so I start the week off doing
JavaScript C ball very close to
publishing a basic decoder and encoder
- tag support for now
just wow I just want to get it published
so I can do the work in the open so that
was the bar is trying to get to and just
need to finish floats to get that done
I'm Kane
about exploring the vertical integration
potential between partha all the way up
to schemers so instead of just treating
that traditionally in JavaScript
particularly node we would be very
strict with our module boundaries but I
think if we change the way we think
about codex in IP LD in JavaScript
there's a lot of interesting potential
for connecting that vertical so anyway
that's that's something I've been towing
a lot of with in my head and while I'm
building this thing about how say you do
some coach and with schemas you could
really build in intimate knowledge about
how these things get encoded if you
build codecs that can work in a similar
fashion so you know it's really easy if
you say okay I'm doing this schema and I
only care about C ball great you could
do some really cool vertical integration
if you want to be more flexible then
you'd have to have codecs that play
nicely together and a lot of this comes
from go where Eric's already got a lot
of this playing nicely I think there's
more bits to a lot of potential and go
to connect all the way from the the the
codecs all the way up but there's still
a lot of vertical stuff going on where
things can swap in and out and you have
efficiency gains by not treating the
layering as super strict just bleeding
them into each other a little bit more
in a sensible fashion with that you know
well being a good modular citizen anyway
that's I that's what I started the week
and then got distracted with other
things because these
five coin stuff came up so the two
things I was working on was quickly some
car format fixes for JavaScript it turns
out that Michael wanted to just throw
data at the car file generator and my ap
eyes were assuming that you were gonna
be a nice await citizen and say and
calmly await for the blocks to be
written but so I had to change that and
make it actually write things
sequentially and assume that things
could come in without being without
waiting so that's that seems to be
working now I'm still came Michael to
spend a bit of time testing different
car files that you produce with this
thing to make sure that they are
actually doing what they're supposed to
do but we'll get there and then the
other thing was the comm file generation
thing which Michael mentioned so the two
the two things that we discovered when
digging into the actually it was there's
what we were doing was going from doing
this ago and then using the go libraries
which did some of the work and then
crossed over the FFI boundary into the
proofs in rust and and we're basically
now we've moved like three steps closer
to almost re-implementing the proof
stuff which has you know which we need
to be think carefully about how much of
this we really want to do but it turns
out this there's the two areas of that
it's using disk the padded running the
padded version it writes it to disk any
reason it does that is because the
padding algorithm has this little seek
in it that just hops back a bite or two
so it when you give this padding
algorithm a reader with a big huge you
know that can read sequentially like a
stream of bytes then it wants to be able
to move forward and then go back a
little bit and then forward and then
back a little bit and forth and so
because it needs to do that seek you
can't just give it a pure store
unless it had the appropriate amount of
buffering so then what what the proofs
does is write it to disk and then feed
it from that disk that temporary file
said that it can do that back and forth
thing so Volker wrote an in-memory
version of it just writes it to memory
and then it can move back and forth from
memory and then we found it was still
using double the amount of the piece
size in disk it turns out the Merkle
tree algorithm in there that it's using
to generate the compy which is just
companies just the merkel proof of the
the thing and so that of the piece and
it so does a it divides it into 32 bytes
and then hashes them and then makes a
Merkel treat you know arity of 2 all the
way up to the final piece and the
miracle tree algorithm that's using uses
a disk cache to cache the pieces as it's
the hashes as it's working at this tree
and that so that the code that does the
disk caching is can actually take a it
the the library that's doing the local
tree stuff can either take a disk cache
or a memory cache but in the fire coin
proofs it's hardwired in as a disk cache
um so now they I've got a link there
just to the re-implementation of it that
just does a lot of a bit of copypasta
from the proofs code and replaces that
with for the first one it's the padding
thing that Volker implement and the
second one is then replacing the local
tree call with something that'll call it
with a um a memory cache so we can now
swap out disk for memory but it still
uses three times the size of the piece
rounded up base to approximately so yeah
for a one gig piece it's using nearly
three gigs of memory and then on top of
that if we turn it into a lambda thing
then we we add more memory overhead
because of whatever else we have to add
to make it play nicely with lambda
and then on top of that we've got the
the decision point about do we are we
comfortable using this thing which is
now using less of the actual proofs code
and it's using a custom real
implementation or what do we want to do
other breeds but that's I mean we have
to we're gonna have to watch that really
really really closely I mean just for
Stephens benefit since he came in a bit
late but the problem we ran into is that
like we have some interesting
constraints running these in lambda we
have to do some of them currently and
the main constraint is that we can't we
don't really have any scratch disk space
to use but we can get up to like three
gigs of memory and we can get the car
files down to just below a gig so as
long as we can not use disk and use less
than three gigs of memory per car file
comfy generation we're fine but anything
over that then we run into a lot of
problems so that's why we've been
working on this which in real quick do
you guys get access to like tmpfs
essentially just you know put the file
into memory without having to change
anything so that's what I did
in locally to test this but in lambda
you don't I don't believe any way you
have any way of creating or using tempo
fests but the other problem with using
tempo faced with such a tight constraint
is that you have to be absolutely sure
that you leave enough for the runtime
super divided it perfectly which you
know lambda gives you three thousand and
eight megabytes and during testing this
executable he's using two thousand nine
hundred and ninety five megabytes so
it's really tight so yeah he's in
JavaScript and go this is now in rust so
have you tried to compile it against
32-bit ABI it will be twice as small
you can't fire who came up how if a coin
on 64-bit and this is this is the other
dilemma though which is the further we
move away from the the the rust-proof
binary the more risk we introduce in
generating compy that doesn't match so
if we go ahead doing it this way I think
I would want to randomly sample some of
the outputs and and generate it compete
generate compy a traditional method just
to sanity check that we we're not
finding some weird edge case that we're
not there's this thing this whole story
has been a story of finding edge cases
and discovering new things that we
didn't understand that nobody told us
about and I'm still I have a deep fear
of that so I think we'd want to sanity
check pretty heavily that we're doing
the right thing all right does anyone
else have any updates or comments or
agenda items it doesn't seem so then I
lost the meeting and say goodbye and see
you all next week goodbye